The President:
Hi, everybody.
This week, in my State
of the Union Address,
I talked about what we
can do to make sure
middle-class
economics helps more
Americans get ahead
in the new economy.
See, after some tough
years, and thanks
to some tough decisions
we made, our economy
is creating jobs at the
fastest pace since 1999.
Our deficits
are shrinking.
Our energy production
is booming.
Our troops are coming home.
Thanks to the hard work and
resilience of Americans
like you, we've risen from
recession freer to write
our own future than any
other nation on Earth.
Now we have to choose
what we want that future
to look like.
Will we accept an
economy where only
a few of us do
spectacularly well?
Or will we commit
ourselves to an economy
that generates rising
incomes and rising
chances for everyone
who makes the effort?
I believe the
choice is clear.
Today, thanks to
a growing economy,
the recovery is touching
more and more lives.
Wages are finally
starting to rise again.
Let's keep that going -
let's do more to restore
the link between hard work
and growing opportunity
for every American.
That's what middle-class
economics is - the idea that
this country does best when
everyone gets their fair shot,
everyone does their fair
share, and everyone plays
by the same set of rules.
Middle-class economics means
helping workers feel more
secure in a world of constant
change - making it easier
to afford childcare, college,
paid leave, health care,
a home, and retirement.
Middle-class economics
means doing more to help
Americans upgrade their skills
through opportunities like
apprenticeships and two years
of free community college,
so we can keep earning
higher wages down the road.
Middle-class economics
means building the most
competitive economy in the
world, by building the best
infrastructure, opening new
markets so we can sell our
products around the world,
and investing in research -
so that businesses keep
creating good jobs right here.
And we can afford to do these
things by closing loopholes
in our tax code that stack the
decks for special interests
and the superrich, and
against responsible companies
and the middle class.
This is where we have to go
if we're going to succeed
in the new economy.
I know that there are
Republicans in Congress
who disagree with my approach,
and I look forward to hearing
their ideas for how we can
pay for what the middle class
needs to grow.
But what we can't do is
simply pretend that things
like child care or
college aren't important,
or pretend there's nothing we
can do to help middle class
families get ahead.
Because we've
got work to do.
As a country, we have made
it through some hard times.
But we've laid a
new foundation.
We've got a new
future to write.
And I'm eager to
get to work.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.